# About BCO-DMO

## Intro

The Biological and Chemical Oceanography and Data Management Office
(BCO-DMO) is a domain-specific repository created to provide data
management services to researchers funded by the National Science
Foundation (NSF) Biological and Chemical Oceanography Sections and
Office of Polar Programs.

Since 2006 BCO-DMO has build a rich database containing over 9,000
datasets of diverse data types from over 2,600 contributors from
physical, chemical, biological and/or ecological and biogeochemical
sub-domains representing 1,000 funded projects.

BCO-DMO is funded by the US National Science Foundation (NSF, award
\#1435578) to curate oceanographic ecosystem sciences data and
information products resulting from research projects funded within the
NSF Division of Oceanography.

## Mission

Scientific research is intrinsically reliant upon the creation,
management, analysis, synthesis, and interpretation of data. Once
generated, data are essential to demonstrating the veracity and
reproducibility of scientific results, and existing data hold great
potential to accelerate scientific discovery through reuse.

The Biological and Chemical Oceanography and Data Management Office
(BCO-DMO) was created in 2006 as a collaboration and consolidation of
independent data management offices for the US JGOFS and US GLOBEC
Programs. The office mission is to assemble, curate, and publicly serve
all data and related products resulting from grants funded by the US
National Science Foundation (NSF) Biological and Chemical Oceanography
programs, and Office of Polar Programs (OPP).

BCO-DMO is integrated into the core science program rather than computer
science programs due to its tight coupling to the oceanographic
investigators and research processes that generate and rely upon data.
Sitting in the science program allows BCO-DMO to accelerate scientific
discovery by working closely with researchers to address their data
management needs.

The role of BCO-DMO has been agreed upon and contractracted by our
funders, and is evidenced by the BCO-DMO project award and by
documentation provided (by the funder) to the stakeholder community as
described in the following NSF documents:

  - [NSF OCE Division Sample and Data Policy
    (NSF 17-037)](https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2017/nsf17037/nsf17037.jsp:)
  - [NSF OCE guidance webpage listing approved data
    repositories](https://www.nsf.gov/geo/oce/oce-data-sample-repository-list.jsp)
  - [BCO-DMO award
    page](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1435578)

# People

BCO-DMO is fortunate to have six excellent data managers in the group
currently who have been selected for their academic background and
experience with oceanographic instruments and data types, as well as
technical skills of data processing tools and software. This strategy
ensures our data managers understand oceanographic concepts, research
themes, scientific publications, and the data produced through
OCE-funded projects.

## Principal Investigators

  - Peter Wiebe (Biology Department, WHOI) (Lead PI)
  - Danie Kinkade (Biology Department, WHOI) (co-PI) e-mail: dkinkade AT
    whoi.edu; phone: 1-508-289-2291
  - Mak Saito (Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry Department, WHOI)
    (co-PI)
  - Adam Shepherd (Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry Department, WHOI)
    (co-PI) e-mail: ashepherd AT whoi.edu; phone: 1-508-289-2772

## Data Managers

  - Matt Biddle (Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry Department, WHOI)
    e-mail: mbiddle AT whoi.edu; phone 1-508-289-3438
  - Nancy Copley (Biology Department, WHOI) e-mail: ncopley AT whoi.edu;
    phone: 1-508-289-3204
  - Danie Kinkade (Biology Department, WHOI) e-mail: dkinkade AT
    whoi.edu; phone: 1-508-289-2291
  - Shannon Rauch (Biology Department, WHOI) e-mail: srauch AT whoi.edu;
    phone: 1-508-289-2817
  - Amber York (Biology Department, WHOI) e-mail: adyork AT whoi.edu;
    phone: 1-508-289-3977

## Web Site Manager & Application Programmers

  - Adam Shepherd (Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry Department, WHOI)
    (co-PI) e-mail: webmaster AT bco-dmo.org, phone: (508) 289-2772
  - Warren Sass (Biology Department, WHOI) e-mail: wsass AT whoi.edu,
    phone: (508) 289-2875

## Former Staff

  - Steve Gegg: Former Data Manager, retired as of 2015
  - Dicky Allison: Former Data Manager, retired as of 2016
  - Cyndy Chandler: Former Co-PI, retired as of August 2017
  - David Glover: Former Co-PI, retired as of March 2017
  - Bob Groman: Former Co-PI, retired as of August 2017

# Partners

  - **DataONE** is an interdisciplinary data aggregator that harvests
    and catalogs BCO-DMO data for increased discovery.
  - The **MBL/WHOI Institutional Library** is used to manage dataset
    publication activity (DOI assignment and management of versioned
    datasets)
  - **Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Information Services**
    provides technical assistance for server management and security
  - **Second Creek Consulting** maintains the existing geospatial search
    interface on the BCO-DMO website.
  - The **National Centers for Environmental Information** (NCEI)
    partners with BCO-DMO (via former MOU and recent Submission
    Agreement \[need link to our SA with NCEI\]) to ensure long-term
    archive of data curated by the office. Data are automatically pulled
    from BCO-DMO once they are validated and published with a DOI.
  - DataCite
  - NERC
  - IGU
