Intro
======
The Biological and Chemical Oceanography and Data Management Office (BCO-DMO)
was created in 2006 to assemble, curate, and publicly serve all data and
related products resulting from grants funded by the NSF core programs for
Biological and Chemical Oceanography, and Office of Polar Programs.

Since that time, a rich database has been built of over 9,000 datasets of diverse data
types from over 2,600 contributors from physical, chemical, biological and/or
ecological and biogeochemical sub-domains representing 1,000 funded projects.

Mission
=======
Scientific research is intrinsically reliant upon the creation, management,
analysis, synthesis, and interpretation of data. Once generated, data are
essential to demonstrating the veracity and reproducibility of scientific
results, and existing data hold great potential to accelerate scientific
discovery through reuse.

The Biological and Chemical Oceanography and Data Management Office (BCO-DMO)
was created in 2006 as a collaboration and consolidation of independent data
management offices for the US JGOFS and US GLOBEC Programs.
The office mission is to assemble, curate, and publicly serve all data and
related products resulting from grants funded by the US National Science
Foundation (NSF) Biological and Chemical Oceanography programs, and Office of
Polar Programs (OPP).

BCO-DMO is integrated into the core science program rather than computer
science programs due to its tight coupling to the oceanographic investigators
and research processes that generate and rely upon data. Sitting in the science
program allows BCO-DMO to accelerate scientific discovery by working closely
with researchers to address their data management needs.

Source: https://www.bco-dmo.org/sites/default/files/BCO-DMO_Introduction_v3.pdf


People
======
BCO-DMO is fortunate to have six excellent data managers in the group currently
who have been selected for their academic background and experience with
oceanographic instruments and data types, as well as technical skills of data
processing tools and software. This strategy ensures our data managers
understand oceanographic concepts, research themes, scientific publications,
and the data produced through OCE-funded projects.


Partners
========
Continued development of standards in a transparent way with other partners:

+ DataCite
+ NERC
+ IGU
